-  Controlling Access to a Cloud Network
In Project 1, our class had deployed and configured a cloud network using Microsoft’s Azure product. Within this cloud, specific access controls were implemented as a means of safeguarding all sensitive information that our clients and hosts housed. A Network Security Group, which essentially acts as a firewall was implemented around the groups of our virtual machines. A NSG consists of Protocol Lists which grant the administrator the ability to control the flow of all incoming and outgoing traffic in relations to our Virtual Network. Thus, granting the administrator the ability to mold and create security measures that cater specifically to the needs of your organization. 
The first rule that we implemented to our NSG was one that would completely deny all incoming traffic. This rule  sets us up to be in total control of what IS allowed to enter our network. Next, a rule was added that would specifically grant us, the administrator, (through our personal device’s public IP address) ‘SSH’ access to our JumpBox. Thus, ensuring that only the administrator can access the JumpBox and the rest of our virtual network.
VMs were then added to our cloud network. These VMs were configured to not have any public IP Address. This configuration prevents any unwanted access to our VMs through the Internet. The only way to lawfully gain access to them would be through our JumpBox, A SSH Key for our VMs was then generated within a docker container. The final implementation to our network was that of a load balancer. Our load balancer not only adds an additional layer of security but also acts as a security guard which determines what traffic is allowed into our network and determines the optimum path the data should travel on.
The JumpBox is our sole access point into our network. However,using a JumpBox within an organization does have its downsides. One being that using a JumpBox is not scale friendly to your company. Rather, when scaling, having a JumpBox in use would just greatly increase complications. One of the main reasons is that when scaling adding more users would require more performance on the server. Better alternatives do exist. For example, using a third party SaaS such as a LDAP or Active Directory would help you in the long run when taking scaling into consideration.
Another security implementation that organizations also have a choice of implementing is the VPN, Virtual Private Network. Basically, a VPN encrypts your device’s connection to the Internet. It should always be used when accessing public wifi or when you would like to protect your sensitive information. However, implementing a VPN does have its downsides. First of all, installing a decent VPN would be costly. Another downside to using a VPN is that it would significantly slow down your Internet speeds.